[Anitoshin-Ski theme song playing]
Hello and welcome to another episode of No Such Thing as a Fish, a weekly podcast coming to you from four undisclosed locations in the UK.
My name is Dan Schreiber, I am sitting here with Anitoshin-Ski, Andrew Hunter Murray and James Harkin, and once again we have gathered round the microphones with our four favourite facts from the last seven days, and in no particular order, here we go.
Starting with fact number one, and that is Andy.
My fact is that the prototype personal cassette player was a block of wood which the inventor carried around in his pocket to make sure it would fit. That was it, he just wanted to make sure that it would be the right size, and so he did it the simplest way possible.
So when you say prototype, he didn't think it was making any noise or anything. I remember when I was in the school orchestra in primary school, I was on the wooden block, so you know, that is an instrument, isn't it?
It is an instrument, that's true.
That was the very early prototype, the idea.
That was the only song you could play, the wooden block parts of children's songs.
Yeah, it was a really early prototype, and then he worked on it a lot before it became The Walkman.
He was called Lou Ottens, this guy, and he passed away a couple of weeks ago, aged 94, and in his working life he worked at Philips, the electronics firm, and he was the head of research and development.
So in the 1950s he started working on an alternative for the huge tape recorders that you had at the time, and he had this block made in the 60s to show him how big the first compact cassette should be, so it was convenient.
And the really nice thing is we don't have it anymore.
This prototype has been lost in the midst of time because he used it to prop up his jack while he was replacing a flat tire in his car, and he just left it by the road at the end by mistake.
It was just a bit of wood. I mean, you're acting like a museum.
It was history, I agree.
We know where he broke down, because if you're driving along the road, keep an eye open for a block of wood the same size as The Walkman, because it could be worth billions.
Exactly. I think he was Dutch, so look around, Dutch listeners.
Yes, that's very cool.
He was madly in love with electronics right from the beginning, wasn't he?
When he was a kid, he used to build radios, and as a teen, he built radios during the war that meant that they could sort of listen in to illegal channels.
Him and his parents could listen to radio that should have been hurt.
And he built this weird directional antenna on top of one that he called the Germanin filter, and the idea was it would jam any of the Nazis who were trying to work out who was getting illegal radio.
I think it was a thing that would stop the jammers, right?
As in the Nazis would put jammers out there to try and stop you from listening to certain radio stations, and his thing stopped the jammers rather than jamming other things, right?
It was a jam jam jammer.
A jam jammer. Wow.
A jam avoider, yeah.
So he could listen to his jam.
Yeah.
Well, do you know what the radio station was called?
It was called Radio Oranje, or Oranje, and oranges.
What do you make out of them?
Marmalade.
It's literally the only fruit that if you turn it into a jam-like substance, it's not called jam.
Andy, I think it falls under the jam umbrella.
The jam umbrella.
I think it's a subcategory of jam.
In later life, obviously, the personal cassettes he helped invent, what can you listen to on them?
Your jams.
That's what I just said.
I literally just made that joke.
James made that joke.
I'm so sorry.
James made the joke, and while you were not listening to it, you were busy coming up with your whole marmalade thing.
You don't know why that was in there at all.
Unmortified.
The interesting thing about this block is he came up with the size and then had to fit everything inside it.
That's just kind of an interesting way of doing it, right?
You would think you would get everything that you need, so all your speakers and all your bits and where the batteries go and stuff,
and then try and make it smaller.
But he thought, this is the side it needs to be.
And in that size, we have to fit the cassette.
We have to fit a loudspeaker.
We have to fit batteries.
We have to fit all the electronics, and we have to fit a few connectors.
And then basically that was the puzzle that he had to solve at Philips to try and get all these amazing things into this tiny little block.
That's very interesting.
So Lou Ottens, he actually didn't think much of the cassettes compared to CDs.
He thought that CDs were the absolute best quality of anything you could get.
He even thought CDs were better than vinyl.
Later on in life, he kind of reneged on their whole, "Aren't cassettes amazing?"
And that's true.
I mean, cassettes, they do compress their audio quite a lot, don't they?
He helped to invent the CD.
Yeah, he wasn't just being selfless when he was saying, "The CD is so much better than my invention.
It was also his, wasn't it?"
It was partly his, wasn't it?
He must have been absolutely bloody loaded.
Well, I don't know what kind of a stake he had, but 100 billion tapes were sold.
And then as soon as he invented the CD, 200 billion CDs were sold.
If he got one P for everything, he would be the richest man in the...
I don't know about numbers and stuff, but it feels like he would be the richest person in the world.
He's a maths graduate.
But you know, when you say how much money Elon Musk has got, it's just the numbers just become crazy, don't they?
That's true.
Must be there and thereabouts.
I think he must have not made too much from it, right?
Otherwise, the obituary would have said, "The richest man ever had died."
That wasn't really a sentence that featured in it.
That's right.
Do you know what the event was that the cassette player was launched at?
It was the International Funkausstellung, which is...
Cool.
Yeah, and it sounds like it's the International Funk exhibition, but it just means wireless in German.
It's the International Wireless Exhibition, but it still happens to this day, every year, they event new stuff.
And release it.
Cool, yeah.
I mean, people still buy cassettes, don't they?
Yeah.
I think last year they sold more than they have since the 80s or 90s, didn't they?
There was one by Five Seconds of Summer, who's like an Australian boy band, and they sold tens and tens of thousands of them.
Yeah.
Because they released a lot.
I think it was Lady Gaga's last album was the biggest selling cassette for a long time in the tens of thousands.
But there was this really odd thing where for quite a long time in the 2000s, they weren't selling anything.
So there's a fact that makes the round on the internet, which is that Ensink was the top selling single for a cassette in 2010.
And they'd sold 13 copies in 2010.
And in 11, they got the chart topper again with the same album by selling 11 copies in 2011.
So I suddenly thought, I know the last time I bought a cassette, the last time I bought a cassette was in 2012, and it was our theme tune Wasps.
So I looked into it because in 2012, the top selling cassette was Borders by the band Feeder, and they sold 480 cassettes out of all the cassettes that the UK registered, which was 604 cassettes sold.
But Emperor Yes, the band who does our theme tune, they sold 50 cassettes.
Definitely because they sold out, which must mean our theme tune was one of the top five best selling cassettes of 2012.
Huge.
We've got to get that on the press blurbs.
It was before we existed, wasn't it?
Yes.
It was.
Two years.
Yeah.
It is mad how much it's gone up then, given that we were in the almost single figures.
And I think in 2020, 160,000 tapes were bought, and that was three times what it was in 2018.
So something's happening.
And I think an industry person said it's actually slightly called as off guard because we don't have enough of the magnetic tape.
We weren't really expecting tapes to come back into fashion and started running out.
In 2012, so this was the year of the Emperor Yes release when it was still sort of like 400 copies being sold.
Is that how 2012 is going to go down in history now?
It's like the year of the dragon, the year of the dog, the year of the Emperor Yes release.
Yeah.
Fuji and IBM built a prototype cassette, which can hold more than say, you know, the classic cassettes that we bought were 30 minutes.
You could get onto it.
90 minutes was the top.
And then I think there was 120 and 180 minutes.
Those really were pushing the limits.
They've now built one which can store 185 terabytes on a single cassette tape.
Single cassette tape.
So I was trying to look into how many songs that could fit onto it.
And some guys worked it out online.
He says you could fit on this a single cassette tape, 47.3 million songs on a single.
That's too many.
Yeah, well, it is.
No one needs that many songs.
Surely we have more than that just on Spotify or whatever.
Spotify currently has 70 million songs.
So this is more than half of what Spotify has.
Wow.
Sorry, this is a kind of a massive tape.
No, it's the size of a cassette tape.
And what they've done is it's a process they've called sputter deposition and it shrinks the magnetic particles on the tape.
So it just drastically shrinks them down so that more information could be fit on it.
Why have they done that when none of us really care about tapes anymore?
I don't know.
I think they want it for storage because in the same article they were talking about how Facebook has its whole backup on Blu-ray discs.
This is back in 2012.
And so I think they're just trying to find tiny spaces where they don't have to use these insanely large hard drives that are chewing up energy to hold things.
Just to show how obsolete it is, the word cassette tape was taken out of the concise Oxford English dictionary.
So the concise Oxford English dictionary doesn't have every word.
It has all the most useful ones.
And cassette tape was taken out of it in 2011.
And that's one year before the year of Emperor Yes's cassette tape.
That's outrageous.
They had no idea.
I think that's an oversight.
That is bad, bad work.
I think there's a lot of people listening to it.
Not a lot of people, but some people listen to this podcast.
You've got literally no idea what we're talking about.
Do you want to hear a cassette tape anecdote?
No.
Yeah.
Okay.
Give us half of it.
All right.
Look, there's a scientist called Barry Marshall.
I think we've mentioned before.
Oh, yeah.
He gave himself, what's it called?
Stomaculci.
Yeah.
He won the prize for suggesting that Stomaculci were caused by bacteria and not by stress
and diet.
And this was a revolutionary thing.
He and his colleague won the Nobel Prize in 2005.
Anyway, this is what I found in an online comment thread beneath an article about cassettes,
which was when Marshall and Robin Warren submitted a paper concluding that blah, blah, blah,
one of the reviewers of the paper sent back a cassette tape that was just 15 minutes of laughter.
Now, I wrote to Barry Marshall because I couldn't quite believe it because I thought 15 minutes
is such a long time to be fake laughing to make a point.
And he said it was fake news.
He wrote back and said, no, this never happened.
Oh, right.
Contact with Barry Marshall.
That's incredible.
I wrote to him to ask him maybe the most pointless question ever.
Yeah.
He won the prize and said, is it true that someone laughed at you for 15 minutes on a cassette
tape based on this one comment on an online thread?
And he said, no, it was about a full word email.
He said back.
Wow.
But then like, because that would have been a pointless 15 minutes of laughter, but he
has received a pointless email from you.
So in a way, he's wasting that time in the end.
I've got one more story about cassette tapes.
Okay.
In the 1990s, a woman called Stella Weddell was on holiday in Spain.
I think she might have just been a girl at the time.
Anyway, she lost her mixtape.
It had some shaggy on it, some Bob Marley and a few Disney songs.
Good collection.
Yeah, right.
I mean, yeah, proper mixtape stuff, really eclectic.
Anyway, in 2019, she was on holiday in Stockholm and she went to an exhibition by an artist
called Mandy Barker who had been documenting plastic pollution and had put a tape on display.
She'd found a tape and had it professionally restored and, you know, show the track listing
and Stella Weddell saw the track listing and said, that's my mixtape, which I lost 30
years ago in Spain.
And then she got fined for littering or what?
It doesn't relate.
I hope so.
She just put her hands up and said, it wasn't me.
Okay, it is time for fact number two.
That is Anna.
It's about baboons.
My fact this week is that baboons can take 45 minutes debating which direction to go in
the morning.
And Anna, who spends 45 seconds debating whether to say a fact.
I was on the wrong page and you can just snip that silence right out.
Yes, baboons.
Baboons are very indecisive, it turns out.
And so every day they wake up and they need to decide where to go to get food or water
or shelter or fun.
And they have this amazing process whereby they decide which way to go.
And it was looked at properly by a behavioural ecologist called Meg Crowfoot recently.
And she observed a number of things.
So one quite funny thing is that eventually everyone ends up following a leader to go in
the right direction.
But there seems to be no rhyme or reason to which baboon they follow.
It's not the most dominant.
It's not the biggest.
It's not the males.
It's not the sexiest.
The only thing that determines which one they follow is the style of walking.
So if you walk...
It's a bit like, do you remember that Conservative Party conference where they all started doing
an unbelievably stupid stance where they kind of would...
Yes.
They would walk on stage and all stand with their legs like five feet apart.
Legs of Kimbo.
Yeah, it feels like that.
But then they all followed Theresa May doing her dance instead.
Robot.
Yeah.
Is it a different walk then every morning?
It's basically if you walk with extreme confidence.
The boons that went off but in a bit of a windy way or walked a bit slowly or did some pauses,
they didn't get followed.
If you walk very straight and at a very steady pace, you're more likely to be followed.
That's really cool.
They are quite democratic in one way, but undemocratic in another way, which is basically the rank
in the pack, which is not deciding on who goes in which direction.
It just depends on who's in charge.
But that's very much...
In the females, it depends on how strong your mother was.
In males, it depends on how much you can beat up the other boons.
It's very much like if your mum was amazing, you're amazing.
If you can beat up all the other boys, you're amazing.
Everyone else just has to suck it up.
Right.
But the walk decisions are not based on that.
It's really weird.
It's really peculiar.
Everything else is.
Like you say, they're so hierarchical.
There was one quite endearing scene that Meg Crawford painted.
One baboon that she observed obviously tried to lead the group.
So they're all loitering around in the morning under a tree.
One baboon started wandering away, walked about 100 meters, looked back, no one's followed
him.
And so he sort of like wanders around and like thrust his chest out.
He's like, you know, why aren't you following me?
And eventually he climbed up onto a tree stump and made it obviously trying to make himself
more prominent.
And he stood there for 10 minutes trying to encourage him to follow and then gave up and
returned to the group.
Oh, wow.
Sad.
about trying to persuade people to make a decision on where to eat. Yeah. You think if I just start
walking, they'll follow? They never do, do they, Andy? No. Did you say the thing about compromise?
That when leading boobins go in opposite directions, the degree counts. So if there is less than 90
degrees between the two leaders of the pack who are saying, let's go this way, if there's less than
90 degrees, they'll just find a direction in the middle and go that way. But if they're going
in opposite directions, then they side with each other. Not a good plan. Yeah. It's like a terrible
plan. Yeah. Because what if there's something in the way? Yes. Yeah, or a hippo or something. Yeah,
you're basically picking something that neither of the two main guys have picked. You're just
choosing something quite arbitrary, aren't you? James, I would have thought as a Lib Dem voter
that you'd literally pick something roughly in the middle. That's fair. Yeah, and I don't
understand if then, do they join the group? I guess they do. The two who've picked the directions,
or are they just now out on a limb, I wonder, and everyone else? Because it's about the whole
group then picks the one in the middle, don't they? The root of the middle. Yeah, yeah. I guess
the two who were leading it, lead it, but I don't know. Yeah, the two leading would say, OK, we've
come to a, yeah. I'm just seeing where my position is in this entire group and in the group of all
of our fans now that everyone knows I'm a Lib Dem voter. I might have come right down to the bottom
of the group. No one's following you anywhere. You're standing on a tree stump on your own.
But they aren't. The democracy element is pretty fascinating. So as you said, if two
baboons go in opposite directions, then sometimes they'll just be a stalemate. So exactly the same
number of baboons will follow each one. And so the rest who are still left in the middle are like,
well, it's equal. So we just have to do a revote. It's like the second stage of voting. So everyone
comes back to the middle and then try again and eventually slightly more baboons will follow
one than the other. And then they all go, OK, more voted for that one. Let's go with that.
Very cool. You know, baboons have red bums. Yes. Do you know why they have red bums?
It's not so that when you're walking, people can follow you. I don't think. Yeah, that would be
good. Are they always slapping each other's bottoms? That's just a bit of bruising. No, not really.
They actually don't have red bottoms. They just have a big bruise, all of them.
So you would think, I would have thought, that whoever has the reddest bum might have the most
sex. Yeah, it's the sexy bums. You would think so, right? But they've done some studies. So it's a
2015. Actually, on my notes, it's a 2,105 AD study, but I think it was in 2015. And it was in the
journal Animal Behavior. And they looked at all the female baboons with the most swelling and they
found that the redder rumps didn't have more offspring and didn't have more sex. And so they're
like, well, why do they do that? And they reckon that it's simply kind of a byproduct of ovulation.
So when a female is the most fertile, various changes happen in her body. But one of them is
that her bum gets redder. And there's actually not any particular reason. It doesn't seem to
help or hinder them in any other way. It's just kind of a byproduct of that.
Interesting. Isn't that weird? It's random. It's like if women having periods, we were being
studied by aliens and they were like, I guess men must find this period thing attractive.
And then it's like, no, it just happened. It's just part of life. Just part of life.
I read that the way they do choose a mate is by how long it's been since the woman last had a baby.
Because apparently they're less fertile if they're nursing. So it's best that they're not nursing
young. But I'm not sure how they, how do you have that conversation as a baboon?
Maybe it's obvious when you, you know, go back to their place and they've got a 17 year old kid.
The quality of the drawings on the fridge, how you do it. It's very basic and she's had a baby
recently. So I really like this baboons and impalas, you know, sort of antelope like creatures,
they make friends with each other because this is in Tanzania. There's a tree in Tanzania called
the sausage tree, which I was immensely pleased to find out exists. And they hang out under the
sausage tree. Annoyingly, it's not real sausages, but what a tree that would be. It's just fruits,
which have these rough gray rinds on the outside. And they look like sausages. It just looks like
it's festooned with sausages. But anyway, the impalas are trying to eat their sausages under
the tree. And the baboons are there looking out for predators. And the impalas are visibly more
relaxed. They spend half the time with their heads up and around looking for predators
that they would do normally if they were, you know, unaccompanied by their baboon friends.
I was reading about how baboons get their food. And this is probably a tip for anyone who's
lost out in the wild as well. But they scavenge through elephant dung. So they come across a
massive pile of dung and they head in there because elephants eat a lot of nuts and they eat a lot of
fruit, but they don't digest at all. So a lot of the stuff passes through their body completely
undigested. So if you see a giant pile of elephant dung and you're starving, stick a hand in and you
might like a dip style come out with an apple. Quite far down the road of being starving before
you get that far. I think don't do it. If you're walking around Chester Zoo and you feel like a
snack, don't do it. I think that they're going, fuck, we voted for the wrong person this morning
when they left that pile of elephant dung. Democracy doesn't always work. We know that.
Baboons like to heavy pet each other quite a lot. It's in a quite sweet way. I read an
article from 2003 in Nature, which I was surprised by the title of it because it is Nature,
a very high-respected journal. And the article was titled "Risky Diddling Bones Baboons"
and it's about the closer friends you are with someone as a baboon, the more risky your diddling is.
Diddling, I love that phrase. It's so nice, isn't it? So they love to fondle each other. They'll pull
on each other's penises reciprocally. There are several forms of grasping of bums and genitals
that they engage in, apparently. They nibble each other. They mount each other when they meet,
but the closer they are to that other baboon, the closer they'll get. And the idea is that
your own knees sort of... How can you get closer than pulling each other's penises? It feels like
there's no closer you can get after that, is there? I guess it depends how hard you pull. Maybe it's
a gentle tug for an acquaintance, but a real heave for a pal. And the idea is that if it's not a close
friend, then you maybe don't trust them. Well, the way they put it was, for instance, if you're
genital biting, which is something else they do, if it's someone you don't know very well,
an over-enthusiastic bite can end a baboon's mating career. So you only...
I can imagine, though. Probably just mistook it for a sausage from that phrase.
Here's another penisy thing about baboons. There was a baboon. No, there wasn't a baboon.
Called babby, because this was like an ancient Egyptian kind of god. I don't want to say that
gods don't exist, but this one is probably a story. So there was a baboon called babby,
and it was kind of the person who took you from the living world to the dead world
in ancient Egypt, according to some stories. And because baboons have such high libidos and have
his sex all the time and doing all this diddling, he's usually portrayed with a massive erection.
And sometimes when he would take the souls from the living world to the
dead world, he would have to cross a river, and he would use his penis as the mast of the ferry.
He would tie a sail to it, and it would help him to get across the river stick, so whatever it was in Egypt.
That's more realistic than what I thought you were going to say, which is that he'd use it as a
bridge for them to walk across. I thought you were going to say you had to take him by the penis,
so he was your guide into the spirit world, and you just had to follow his knob, you know.
But then he's walking backwards, and so that would make him a terrible guide, wouldn't it?
That's a really good point. Tor guides do walk backwards.
You know in London, when you see the tar guides, they've got a massive umbrella that they're holding
up so everyone else can see them. If that was a baboon's penis, the world would be very different.
I reckon they'd get more custom. That's an idea.
Ancient Egyptian life with baboons seems, did you guys read the story, which again,
I think it's one of those ones that sits across a lot of those fact sites on the internet, but
supposedly, baboons used to be part of the police force in ancient Egypt.
And yeah, and there's hieroglyphics and examples on walls that show
baboons that have sort of been let off after a criminal who's trying to escape, taking them down.
And we do have examples of this. So there's classical works where they would go around with
the baboon on a leash, and if the person was a thief escaping in a marketplace, let them off the
leash, and they would bite their leg and hold the criminal down.
If they only bite your leg, then you've done okay, haven't you?
That's amazing, but can't be. I mean, do you mean, would they use the attack dogs, do we think?
Yeah, like attack dogs. The police say, go get that guy, and then the three baboons have a 45-minute
chat about the best route through the marketplace to perceive. I love it.
They're quite trainable. There are baboons that herd goats, apparently, and have done.
It's so cool. This is like first record. It seems to be in Namibia specifically,
but in the 1830s, then they were recorded of like, you know, they'll herd goats out and make sure
goats don't sort of wander off track and stuff. At the end of the day, they'd herd them back into
the compound. They'd raise an alarm if there's like a wolf on the horizon. They'd make a big
shrieky noise. And in the 1960s, this was still happening, and there was this such sweet account
of a baboon called Arla. Did you guys read about Arla? So this is in Namibia, and Arla's herding
the goats of a farmer, and she's obsessed, according to this article, with reuniting parents with
children. So sometimes the farmer will put the parent goats in one pen and the kids in another,
because he just shoved them all separately. And Arla would leap into the kid's pen, because
there'll be a kid bleeding out for his mum, would leap in, pick it up, and jump over and
return it to its mother. To the extent that a farmer said, it's actually quite annoying,
because when a goat has twins, you try to foster one out to a different mother. But Arla would
keep jumping in, picking it up and returning it to its birth, mum. Wow. This is so amazing.
So we're not believing that they were police forces in ancient Egypt, but we are capable of
believing that. Jimi Hendrix's recording career started. There were goat herds doing family
reunions. The bear I heard about was all these baboons of the herding goats would often be seen
riding the biggest of the goat back home, as they were herding it, like a cowboy riding a horse.
Yeah. There are photos of them riding, and we don't know if they chose the biggest,
but there are certainly photos of them popping on the back. He would, wouldn't he, after a tough
day's herding? Yeah. Photos of dogs on surfboards, but I don't think that it's kind of a regular
thing that they did. But the farmer said that Arla would jump on top, pop on their backs.
They're quite fun-loving. I think you would. Wow. I don't know. I think of all this story that
you've just told, the Occam's razor is that one farmer is a massive liar. That is the simplest
explanation for that whole story, isn't it? I have faith in them baboons.
Okay. It is time for fact number three, and that is my fact. My fact this week is that
Ella Fitzgerald's voice was so pitch-perfect that musicians would tune their instruments to it.
Wow. That's a good voice. Yeah. This appeared in an NPR article that I was reading about Ella
Fitzgerald's general voice technique and the love that people have for her voice, including
all the band members that used to work with her. And they all talk about her voice in this really
sort of otherworldly kind of way. There was one person in the band called Janice Siegel,
who said that they were doing a few four-part harmonies, and then Ella would scat a couple
of choruses, and then would turn to them and say, "Was that all right?" And she said it was like
God-asking angels after he created the world. What did you think? The Grand Canyon? Could it
use a little tweaking? They were just so in awe of this instrument that she had inside of her.
Oh, wow. And she was extraordinary. Yeah. I hadn't realised with Ella Fitzgerald that the
thing seems to be how perfect her voice was. There's a lot of… I feel like sort of slight
digs when people write about her. She didn't have the emotional depth and pain of a lot of blues
and jazz things, but she could hit every note flawlessly, right? And her voice never ever
failed or cracked. Amazing. Yeah. I was interested in this fact, because we had
a really great conversation with Karen Gibson during our 20-hour marathon, who was the creator of
the Kingdom Choir, who sang at Harry and Meghan's wedding. You should everyone go watch that
chat on YouTube. It's really cool about gospel. But I suddenly realised I knew nothing about
Ella Fitzgerald, and her story is pretty remarkable where she came from and how she became
a big musician in the jazz era, where segregation was still massive and where at the height of her
career, she was still having to come in through different doors to white people and not allowed
to perform in certain places. And what's fascinating as well is that her first mega hit
was a nursery rhyme that gave her her first number one. Yeah, so weird. And she had a number one hit
with it before you could have billboard number one hits. And the way that you used to do that was
sheet music. So you would release the sheet music to your song, and that was judged to be the most
popular song. Also, I think it was that, and jukebox plays, wasn't it? I think where you used to
help, that was billboard. Yes, yes, that's right. How incredibly disappointing when you bought the
sheet music, went home and remembered that you did not have Ella Fitzgerald's voice.
That's true. Yeah, so much worse. Yeah, she had an amazing start. So I think she got that big hit
in about 1938. But as you sort of started, her big break came in 1934, I think called amateur night
at Harlem Apollo Theater. And it was the first year that that was happening. And it still goes on
today, which is quite cool. And it's just amateurs go up and sing. And it was a bet she went with two
friends. And they put their names in this hat. And you pick names out of a hat to choose who goes on
stage. And Ella's name was pulled out of a hat. And she was really into dancing then, not nearly as
much into singing. And she planned to do some dancing on stage. And there were some women
called the Edward sisters who danced amazingly before her. And she lost confidence. She's very
shy. And she got up on stage. And so she thought, okay, I'll sing instead. And I think she said,
at one point, that it messed up first time, she couldn't really sing it properly, or she freaked
out. And the crowd started sort of jeering and booing. MC paused gave her another go. She won
first prize. Someone who was there danced called Norma Miller said, she shut us up so quickly,
you could hear a rat piss on cotton. That's a great phrase. Worth reusing.
Why didn't that catch on? Why are we not using that in everyday language? That's great. Time to
get it in circulation again. But yeah, and she won the prize. That was a kind of job before. Well,
she was a she was only a girl at the time, wasn't she? But she she tap danced on the pavement,
busking. And that's what what gave her the idea to do the amateur night at the Harlem Theatre.
Although apparently that was only one of her jobs. She also had a job doing errands for the mob,
which I don't know what kind of errands the mob needed doing stuff running down to the post.
I think they have quite a lot of errands to do. And she was also a lookout for a brothel, wasn't
she? I think I read that she she would stand outside the brothel. And if the police were coming,
she'd be like, get your trousers back on, everyone. The police are coming. Yeah, or something.
But she said it in such a beautiful voice that everyone.
One of Ella Fitzgerald's most famous recordings. I'm sure you guys all read about this was in
Berlin live in Berlin, which she won the best female vocal performance and best vocal performance
for a single and an album at the Grammy Awards. And it was mostly for this song,
Mac the Knife, which everyone will know. And halfway through, she at least pretends to or
actually forgets all the lyrics. Brian, if you listen to it, it's amazing. She starts singing
the first verse, she sings fine. And then the second bit, she does a little bit. And then she
goes, Oh, what's the next chorus to this song now? This is the one now. I don't know. But it's a
swinging tune. And it's a hit tune. So we tried to do Mac the Knife. And she's literally just like,
she just completely made up the lyrics. And then towards the end, she just does her normal scat
singing, where she's just like, boob-ups away to the end. But I mean, it is an incredible,
incredible recording. If anyone hasn't heard it, you've got to listen to it.
But she won a Grammy for that, for that recording. Yeah, yeah. Did she? That is extraordinary.
Well, if you think about it, you've not just sung it, you've written a song on the fly as well,
haven't you? In the way. I know, you've got a co-writer credit, all of a sudden.
Hang on, mate. What? The lyrics sound like they could do with some work. I mean, I appreciate
that it sort of rhymes or whatever. Well done, her on the spot. Well, she rhymes now with now,
so I'm not sure. It's not perfect. There you go. It's what I'm saying.
I wrote her a bit tree in the Washington Post, where I wrote a couple of different bit trees.
But I love this. This is not really a fact about Ella Fitzgerald per se. It's more a fact about
Washington Post bit trees in the 1990s. That's what most of my research is about. I just found
this amazing. So there's the whole bit tree, obviously. And then at the end of it, there's
this one paragraph, which just says, "To sample different aspects of Ella Fitzgerald's music,
the post offers three sound bites. They can be heard by calling post-haste at 202-334-9000
and pressing the number listed after each selection. To hear a tiscata task it, press
8151." And you just had a dial and obituary service, which I think is brilliant. Why don't we do
that anymore? That is such a good idea. That's amazing. A number of reasons why we don't do it
anymore, but it is amazing. Did you try calling the number? I didn't, no, because it's in America,
and I thought I'd probably get charged loads. It's not worth it. That's a rather than a TV show
of obituary. So that feels like it would work, wouldn't it? It's a Radio 4 show, which is called,
I can't remember what it's called. It's called They're Dead or something. It's all from last week.
And it's a really great show because it's several different types each week. I don't think it's a
TV show. There should be. It feels like it would be brilliant. Yeah, like you would say you'd be
celebrating the people's lives and then you would show clips of what they did and stuff. I think
that'd be amazing. But I think this is your life. The key emotional thing in this is your life is
that they get the famous person and then they bring out all the people from their life. Whereas
you'd have them there in a coffin and then all the famous people they knew in life just
they'd be crying because it's a week later. Maybe you could do it a while after. Yeah,
like a year. It's been a year since this person died or something. Yeah. Got the coffin still in
the room. No, no. Oh, okay. Sorry. Right. We're just dropping that. Okay. That was never part.
Doesn't feel like a crucial format for you. It was never part of my father. It's the second
piece of the set. I don't know what you're talking about. It's the main desk that the host is on.
Maybe the big reveal is the person has died. So everyone comes out and it's like,
you've got to work out what connects you all. Why are you all here? Oh, who's not here? Who's not
here? Yeah. That's why it's cold. Oh my God. Oh, this is turned from heartwarming to the card
very quickly. On Ella? Yeah. Yeah. Ella Fitzgerald, the thing about her that I've wondered about
before. So I was glad to have it confirmed in this fact is that she really doesn't look how you
expect her to look based on the fact that she was the biggest star of her era. She and she never
did. So she always was kind of frumpy. She was thought it was a bit too chubby. She didn't look
glamorous at all. Even when she won that first prize in 1934, the prize was meant to be that the
winner got to perform at the Apollo Theater for the next week every day. And they didn't let her
because she looked so scruffy. She was homeless at the time. And she was wearing like men's work boots
and like a really raggedy dress. And she actually was spotted, I think, that night or at similar
time by Chick Webb. And it was Chick Webb was the band leader whose band she joined, her first
partner. But when he first saw her, he looked at her and said, you're not putting that on my stage.
And his band said like she smelled like she hadn't bathed for a year. And she was just so scruffy
that they thought we can't be, can't be doing that. And then she sang and they went, they decided
they could put her on the stage. But yeah, she doesn't, she hasn't got the look, has she?
Oh, and that was, was the thing about Marilyn Monroe. I read that basically Marilyn Monroe said
this woman has the most amazing voice. You need to put her on stage to, to some owner. And he was
like, no, I'm not doing that. And she said, well, if you do, then I'll sit on the front row for the
next, you know, two weeks or something. And you'll guarantee that all the newspapers will be here
because they'll want to see me sitting on the front row. Yeah. Yeah. That was, yeah. So that was
Ella Fitzgerald says that Marilyn Monroe was sort of responsible for her breaking through. And that
was a mixture of things. It was, it was her look. It was also, you know, the fact she was black,
the whole segregation thing. They didn't want black performers headlining these big Las Vegas
showcases. And Marilyn was the person who said, well, yeah, exactly. I'll sit in the front row.
And then as soon as her voice got heard, Frank Sinatra was coming to the shows and Judy Garland
was coming to the shows. And suddenly it was, hang on, who's this woman that is pulling this
A-list crowd to come and see her? And yeah, Ella, Ella always said it was Marilyn Monroe.
She's a bit like Susan Boyle, wouldn't you say? She's, is that not fair? Because like that's what,
that was the point of Susan Boyle when she was first on the talent show, wasn't it? That she
didn't look like a singer, but then she had an amazing voice. Yeah. I saw Susan Boyle once
in Edinburgh. She was just, she just walked past me. Oh yeah. Or I walked past her. But
memories may vary of the event. We definitely walked past each other. One of you was standing
still then in that case, right? So we were both moving. I've mis-told even this incredibly
short story. You walked past each other. We walked past each other. Yeah. And I don't think
memories vary of the event, Andy, because I'm fairly sure there's only one person who has
a memory of it. She's always mentioning it in interviews, Anna. How dare you? She's constantly
saying. One of her big inspirations when she was a child was a man called Earl Snake Hips Tucker.
This was one, it's really sleazy laugh, James. I was just thinking about snakes and whether
they have hips or not. Great points. And I think they might have very, very small residual hips.
And I think some snakes, you can see, they have tiny little leg bones that come off them.
So did this man have an extremely small residual legs? Yeah. Yeah. He's known after the tiny hips
of snakes. No, he wasn't. Well, why did they give him that name then? I think, okay. Well,
I can tell you he was also known as the human boa constrictor. Oh, so he killed people by wrapping
his legs around their neck. Okay. You're really applying too much biological knowledge to what
was a bit more of a casual nickname. So he was a dancer constrictor because his Latin name was
the same as his common name. Right. I think it sounds like he was hung like an ancient Egyptian
baboon of the afterworld. Okay. You've all got your very quintessentially you interpretations
of the reason for this name. None of them are correct. Okay. He did a dance where you wiggle
your hips around and your body looks like a snake. And it's where you sort of like you're
standing with your feet together. And then you move one knee forward and back after the other.
And it makes your hips rotate. I was looking up some more of the great singers of the 20th
century. Okay. Just out of curiosity. And did you know that in 1978, Dame Barbara Cartland
released an album of love songs? Gee. Yeah. Backed by the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra.
It was her singing. And there's a spoken word intro to everyone. Was she a good singer?
She wasn't great. I haven't listened to all the whole thing. But the little bit I've heard to
does it like Ella Ella Fitzgerald didn't need to worry about her crown being taken away by
Dame Barb's. I found one review on a quite obscure website, but a great review it said,
"With such a lushly orchestrated backing, her limited vocal abilities stick out like a bookmark
in a well-thumbed novel. Her feeble efforts to stay in a key entirely unsuitable for her
result in a curious strained whimper, not unlike the howl of her trademark lap dog when it's past
dinner time." Well, it's weird that that's where you'll search for greatest female singers of the
20th century. I searched for Barbara Cartland news a lot. So that's probably why Google makes me better.
So she gave her last concert in 1991. So this is Ella now, right? Sorry, back onto Ella. Yeah,
I'll save my Barbara Cartland material for another episode. So Ella Fitzgerald gave her
last concert in 1991. And she had a bit of a sad ending. She was sort of very ill near the end of
her days. But I do love in all the stories that you hear about her. She was relentless with wanting
to sort of carry on singing. Her voice was even getting worse and worse as she got older, but she
still just wanted to be on stage. And at one point, I think it was through diabetes, she had to have
her legs amputated below the knees. And when she had her first leg amputated, her friends thought,
"God, that's probably it." And a friend said to her, "Okay, I guess we're pausing now." And her
response was, "What? There's nothing wrong with my throat. I'm not singing with my leg. I love that."
And she was back on the stage just doing her thing. And yeah, just an astonishingly determined
character who earned the role of second best singer just behind Barbara.
She married someone called Cigarette. Well, she married someone whose nickname was Cigarette.
And he was called Benny Cornigay. And she married him in 1941. It was quite short-lived because
her managers and bandmates thought he was a nasty piece of work. And so they hired private
investigators to look into him. And indeed, he did have a criminal past. And so they told her to
divorce him or annul the marriage. But one of the bandmates did remember they all called him Cigarette.
And he didn't know why. He said, "He wasn't tall or thin or anything. We just all called him Cigarette."
He always wore a hat that was on fire, didn't he?
Okay, it's time for our final fact of the show. And that is James.
Okay, my fact this week is that as part of their rivalry, Arnold Schwarzenegger tricked Sylvester
Stallone into making Stop All My Mom Will Shoot. Stallone later described the movie as one of the
worst films in the entire solar system. I cannot believe we are talking about Stop All My Mom Will
Shoot. What? I can't. I mean, finally, I'm dying for this.
Well, this is a fact sent to me by MK Chris on Twitter after we mentioned Stop All My Mom Will
Shoot a couple of times over the last year or so. It was my favorite film, which I've never
actually seen. And it's just like a go-to joke film. And then yesterday, I actually watched it.
I watched the film yesterday. Did you? Yeah.
James, how was it? I thought it wasn't that bad, actually. I mean, it was kind of fine. It was
kind of, I did laugh a couple of times. There's some weird bits where some kind of funny thing
happens and they have this kind of music in the background going, "Boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo."
That is so strange. It's so weird. I watched it yesterday, too. And that's one of the main features.
The best bit is where Sylvester Stallone actually says the name of the title. He says,
"Stop All My Mom Will Shoot!" Which is like, I imagine if I was in the theater in the 80s or
whenever it came out, I would have done a big cheer all the 90s. And then the weirdest thing
about it, I thought, was the very, very last joke, which kind of wraps the whole thing up,
is Estelle Getty saying, "Oh, this guy, he shot his mother!" That's the big joke at the end of the
whole thing. And then Stallone makes a face and like, "Oh, well, I can kind of see why he did,
because my mom's so annoying. I can't believe, James, you've just amical-edited, stop all my
mom will shoot." I think it's a piece of classic work. And if you haven't seen it by now, you
probably never will see it. I only got yourself to blame. People will have invested 84 minutes of
their life into this film. I'm for you to just spoil it like that.
You're saying that assuming they watch the film. If they read the novel, it'll be even longer.
It's so short. It's just so short.
It's like, quickly.
That's got to be a redeeming feature. I mean, they must have known when they made it right.
We've made a piece of shit here, but should we at least leave it for too long?
I think it's not that. The first few minutes, I genuinely laughed a few times. But can I just
quickly say what it is first, like, for people-
About the fact itself.
Yeah, I guess so. Basically, Arnold Schwarzenegger and Sylvester Stallone had this big rivalry
because they were two main strong men of Hollywood. And we might get to a few of the things that
happened between them. But Schwarzenegger apparently leaked out that he was really interested in doing
this movie because he wanted Sylvester Stallone to do it instead. And so he said, "Oh, I'm really
interested." He said in the press, "Yeah, I'm really interested. I'm up for this. I'm up for
this." And then he told the studio that he wanted loads and loads and loads of money.
So the studio then went to Sylvester Stallone and said, "Arnold Schwarzenegger is really
interested in this. Would you be interested in maybe undercutting him?" And he said, "Yeah,
absolutely. I'd love to stick it to him." And then he made this thing and he said that
it's one of the worst films in the entire solar system, including alien productions we've never
seen. He said, "A flat worm could write a better script." And he said, "In some countries, China,
I believe, running the movie once a week on government television has lowered the birth rate to zero."
Oh, that's not correct. That's an amazing line.
He shouldn't have taken it. He's only got himself to blame. If he knew it was a terrible script,
then, you know, that's where Petty Rivalry gets you.
You never know, though, right? You never know what's going to hit. It was that period of film
where these things will either just be massive or…
I think a decent edit could have worked wonders with that. I think the, you know, the Zack Snyder
cut of Stop My Mum Will Shoot might really add sort of tension and drama and comedy.
But there are so many interesting things in it. So there's, if you want to see Sylvester Stallone
wearing a nappy, that features in the film. Halfway in. But the best thing for me is, James,
you'll remember this scene, is where his mum is trying to buy him the gun and she ends up accidentally
buying him an Uzi, basically. Anyway, the Gunstore Clark is played by Richard Schiff.
And if anyone listening is a fan of the West Wing, Richard Schiff played Toby Ziegler,
an incredibly prestigious role in maybe one of the most prestigious TV shows ever made.
This was just a few years after he'd done Stop My Mum Will Shoot. But he brings such,
you know, gravitas to the role of unnamed Gunstore Clark, after about 20 minutes of the
movie, that I don't think the film ever really recovers from his brilliant, quiet, five-line
turn in this role. It's like, oh, wow, he was so good as the Gunstore Clark that the rest of the
film is kind of a bit of a disappointment for me. Does he have the same sort of long suffering,
slightly misanthropic, but right? He doesn't. I really think it might be the same character. But,
you know, in between, there was some event which turned him into the press. Do you think they live
in the same universe then? 100% is the same cinematic universe. Wow, that's exciting. Also,
there's a moment where Estelle Getty is sitting on the plane and she holds up a black and white
picture of Sylvester Stallone as a young boy, and that exact same picture is used in Rocky.
So, there could be a suggestion that they're twins who were leading these different lives.
Well, that makes sense, because one of the motivations for Sylvester Stallone taking this
film was that he'd seen, apparently, this is what he said in an interview, that Arnold Schwarzenegger
was branching out with, for instance, films like Kindergarten Cop and Twins. And so, he felt that
he should branch out in the same way. So, maybe the twin thing was his way of emulating that.
Right. Yeah. Another one of the terrible movies he did was starring alongside podcast favourite
Dolly Parton, of course. Rhinestone, which he was when he was... He was this, sorry, Anna?
Sylvester Stallone, sorry. So, he was in Rhinestone. And when he did an interview where
members of the public asked him questions, they said, "Are there any films you wish you hadn't
done?" And he sort of immediately had a very long list. Top, of course, was Stop While I Mum Will
Shoot. Get Carter, he did a remake of that, Bad Idea, Oscar-driven, detox. And then he said,
"Rhinestone," which I wish had been "Romancing the Stone," which I thought a strange thing to say.
But actually, he was offered that same year "Romancing the Stone," which he turned down
in favour of the lesser stone film release, Rhinestone. And "Romancing the Stone" was...
Do you think he was... Do you think he was stereotyped as doing... After he did Rocky,
do you think we just have to put him in stone-based movies from now on?
Yeah. And he's Sylvester Stallone. So, it's kind of persuasive.
Yeah. I think that's right. Someone else who worked on the film, Stop While I Mum Will Shoot,
was the person who coordinated the action sequences. Now, I haven't seen the film, guys.
So, they're quite... Oh, they're pretty amazing.
Please. Any questions? Yeah, they're pretty... They come thick and fast.
Great. Okay. So, he had a lot to do. So, he was a guy called Evan Lurie. And he starred,
Evan Lurie, or Lurie, starred in a film called American Kickboxer 2.
Oh, great movie.
Have you actually seen that?
Of course, I've seen it.
Yeah. Well, wait. So, Dan, have you seen the prequel to American Kickboxer 2?
Yeah. It wouldn't make sense if I mob straight into American Kickboxer 2.
The prequel to American Kickboxer 2. I don't know. Just say American Kickboxer.
Incorrect. I'm not going to say the name because it's not true.
You've fallen right into my trap. Right. American Kickboxer 1 was released in 1991.
American Kickboxer 2 was released in 1993.
2 had nothing to do with 1. Although 1 did have a sequel, but that sequel was called To the Death.
And then a totally different studio released a totally unrelated film called American Kickboxer 2.
That's weird. So, wait a minute. So, American Kickboxer 2 didn't have a prequel. It just went
straight in as American Kickboxer 2. No. Sorry. So, it was a trick question. You should have said,
no, obviously not, Anna, because it didn't have a prequel. Everyone knows that.
Estelle Getty, who plays the other role in Stop on My Mum Will Shoot alongside Sylvester Stallone,
she has played not just the mother of Sylvester Stallone, but also the mother of Cher and the
mother of Barry Manilow in various films. And she basically says that she always gets
typecast as a mother in any single thing because she was a mother in Golden Girls.
So, she was a mother in the Golden Girls. And actually, I think she might have been younger
than some of the people she was supposed to be the mother of. She was, yeah.
But she like had this kind of character as just being this typical kind of Jewish overbearing
mother, which she then took into almost every play. She said she I played mothers in plays
by Neil Simon, Arthur Miller, and Tennessee Williams, mother to everybody but a tiller the
hun. Wow. Do you think she was angling for the a tiller the hun role, Mrs. Hun?
I want to complete this. Stop on My Hunnel Shoot.
I read Estelle Getty's book that she wrote when I was about 14 years old because I heard that she
was a comedy actor in a big sitcom like Golden Girls. So, I assumed that she was like one of the
hot comedians of America. And this was a time when I was younger where I thought I just want to read
everything. So, I read this whole book and it really was bizarre. And I guess it'll get good.
And it never quite did. But I think I'm one of the few people in their 30s who can say they've
read Estelle Getty's book. I think that's a real error sentence. The thing is, Andy and James,
you do mad things like watching Stop on My Hunnel Shoot for the sake of research.
Dan actually just chooses to do this stuff for fun. Yeah. Her biography was called If I Know Then
What I Know Now. And it came out I think after she'd won her Golden Globe maybe or an M.E. or
something like that. And she said after 50 years in the business, I'm an overnight success.
Yes. She got her first named role when she was over 60.
Her first role was she was credited in a film and then she goes on to win Grammys and Emmys.
So, there's hope for her. She's very good in this film, I must say. She's overlooked by the academy.
As the entire film was. So, should we mention this huge rivalry that happened between
Stelone and Schwarzenegger? Yeah. The first moment where it properly became a thing was
at the Golden Globes. Sylvester Stelone was nominated for a number of awards for Rocky
and they were sat very near each other, I believe on opposite ends of a table.
And Rocky just kept losing the awards through the night. And every time they lost an award,
Stelone would catch Schwarzenegger's eye and Schwarzenegger would be pulling a sort of smug
kind of face. You shouldn't win it anyway. And it got to the point where Stelone was
so intimidated by this that he picked up a giant bowl of flowers, a big vase, and he chucked it
at Schwarzenegger and he said they had tulips and lilies and everything going everywhere.
And that was the start of it. That was the moment that instigated what was a decade-long rivalry
between the two of them, where they took every opportunity to get one up on each other.
Of all the, you know, things you want to throw to show off your testosterone and masculinity,
a vase of tulips strikes me as not the first choice.
Especially as later down the road, where they would deliberately have movies that would have a
bigger gun than the previous guy's movie. I love that idea. That Schwarzenegger would be in a film
with a kind of a 12-inch gun and then Stelone would come in with a 15-inch gun and they get
bigger and bigger and bigger until they had to mount all the guns on the helicopters and tanks
so that they built. Well, that was the thing I think one of them was saying in an interview and
this really resonated with me because I always wondered, I've never seen something like that.
Rambo, so if Schwarzenegger had a movie with a sword, he would make sure it was a massive
sword. And in Rambo, Rambo's knife is ginormous. It's just way bigger than any kind of knife you
would ever have. And supposedly, that was made specifically at the request of Sylvester Stelone
because he was like, "I need the biggest knife. I need a bigger than Schwarzenegger." And if you
see it, it's a memory from Charles. I'm always like, "That's a ridiculously novelty size knife."
And it turns out it's the rivalry that led to it. You know why? Yeah. You know, Rambo was named after
an apple. Really? Yeah. What? Could be that the knife was just for cutting the apple. It was named
after Rambo apples, which apples in America, which in turn are named after a guy called Peter
Gunnison Rambo, who founded New Sweden, a colony in America in 1637. This guy, Peter Gunnison Rambo,
was named after Rambo Get, which is where he was from, which means Raven Mountain in Gothenburg,
and Rambo's codename in Rambo is Raven. Wow. That was a fact sent in by a listener who has too much
time on their hands and spotted it. This whole thing has been blown wide open. And what, stopping
my mum was shooting in the same world as what was the thing, Andy? The West Wing. The West Wing.
Oh, this is all going crazy. The other thing I thought, which is kind of weird, is you know how
we were saying that if one of them had a gun, which was a certain size, the other one had to go one
bigger. Well, in Twins, Schwarzenegger worked with Danny DeVito, who was 1.47 meters tall. Whereas
in Stop at My Mum Will Shoot, Stallone worked with Estelle Getty, who was 1.49 meters tall.
So he had to go two centimetres taller in his supporting actor, didn't he? I think that's what
that was. That's so funny. That's a really good point. Because a lot of the comedy comes from
the fact that Estelle Getty just looks so tiny next to Stallone. And it is hilarious when they
keep showing them next to each other. It stays hilarious all the way through throughout the
84 minutes of screen time. He's a really fast writer, Stallone. That's the other thing. So he
claimed to have written the first Rocky film in three days. He wrote it and starred in it.
He wrote Rocky 2 in 29 hours, according to him. And then later on, he claimed he wrote the cop
thriller Cobra in 16 hours, which can't really fast. That's amazing. Wasn't it the thing with
Rocky 1, the first one that he wrote it? And he took it to a studio and they said, "Yeah, we'll
buy it off you for the equivalent of like a million quid or something, but we don't want you to be in
it. We want Bert Reynolds or someone to be in it." I don't know who they said. But he said, "No,
I need to be in it. Otherwise, you're not having it." And so he wouldn't take the money. And at
that time, he had no money in the bank. He had like $100 in the bank or something.
So that's the story. But later on, it turned out that that was a bit of a PR thing to make
him seem like this big underdog. And actually, the studio had always accepted he was going to be
in it. They spent six months helping him to get the script and the film into shape.
It was such a compelling story. That's such a nice idea that he stuck to his guns and said,
"I don't have any money, but I have to be in this."
But it doesn't work because why would they have to put so much time and effort into fixing the
script that he'd already spent 16 hours writing? Do you know what he later? He later made an arm
wrestling version of Rocky called Over the Top, was it? Yes, of course, then.
So that's a description of the movie, but what was it called?
And he doesn't know it in the course of his research. This is the amazing thing. He didn't
need to research this fact at all. Over the top, the one liner on IMDb. I'll say it just to save
Dan's breath, but Tough Trucker Lincoln Hawke, he plays Lincoln Hawke, is determined to win back
his son and triumph at the World Arm Wrestling Championships. Wow. The reason I know that movie
so well is I used to work for the BBC for the quiz department developing shows, and we'd
managed to get to the boss of BBC. We're in the room with the top dog of BBC pitching the show,
and he wasn't buying it, and we needed a moment to sell it, like something big. And the guy
who was on our team, who we really hoped would not speak during the meeting, decided to speak,
and he said, "Can I tell you, Peter, Peter, it's like the last scene in Over the Top,
when you don't think, and all of us just went, 'I cannot believe you are referencing
the most obscure Sylvester Stallone movie ever made in our golden moment. We needed the hero
moment, and you came up with that." "Dan, I want to meet the person who can be sat in a room with
you, and he is the one who's making these obscure references to shit movies." "Yeah,
stop referring to yourself in the third person, guys." "Yeah, yeah, yeah. Sorry, yeah. I shut
him up. I was like, sorry, Peter, Peter, what he meant was, you know the end scene of American
Kickboxer 2?" "We haven't, guys, so, yeah, whatever." "I've just got one last tiny thing.
This is an interview Bob Hoskins did with The Guardian in 2011.
They asked him three questions. Here we go. What is the worst job you've done?"
He said, "Super Mario Brothers." They then said, "What has been your biggest disappointment?
Super Mario Brothers, if you could edit your past, what would you change?" He said,
"I wouldn't do Super Mario Brothers." "Dan, you must have seen that. Is it any good?"
"A brilliant film. Brilliant film." "Absolutely classic." "Did he play a mushroom or something?"
"No, he's Mario. Yeah, yeah, he's a plumber in New York, I think, and they get taken down. It's
quite dark. It's really sort of like Ninja Turtles style movie. Wonderful. Wonderful."
"Yeah, that's obviously a dog film, Ninja Turtles." "Wow, wait till we show you Shindler's less, Dan."
"Okay, that's it. That is all of our facts. Thank you so much for listening. If you'd like to
get in contact with any of us about the things that we have said over the course of this podcast,
we can be found on our Twitter accounts. I'm on @Shrieberland, Andy, @AndrewHunterM,
James, @JamesHarkin, and Anna, you can email podcast.qi.com. Yep, or you can go to our group
account, which is @NoSuchThing, or go to our website, NoSuchThingAsAfish.com. All of our previous
episodes are up there. Check them out. Also, you can head to our YouTube channel, the quite interesting
channel, where you'll find extracts from the 20-hour marathon that we just did for Comic Relief a few
weeks ago. Most of it should be up there by now. We'll be drip feeding them over the next few weeks
as well, three a day. Do check them out, and please donate to the cause if you do have any money.
Go to ComicRelief.com/Fish. We'd really appreciate it. All right, guys. We will be back again next
week with another episode. We will see you then. Goodbye!